# poolseq_variance
A visualization of variance in estimates of minor allele frequency between independent culture replicates

One of the central assumptions of analyses using pooled DNA sequencing is that the allele frequencies are representative of the broader population.  This assumption is vulnerable to several sources of error from sampling bias to PCR duplications to sequencing error.  Ideally, technical replicates should be taken from any single population in order to ascertain the extent of the technical variation with this approach.  In practice this may not be feasible due to constraints on individual samples or cost of analyses (library prep and sequencing).

In our recent study (https://doi.org/10.1098/rspb.2020.3223) we used pooled DNA samples from five replicate cultures of larval oysters to evaluate changes in allele frequencies across larval development.  Lacking technical replicates begs the question whether estimates of minor allele frequencies (MAF) in each culture are accurate to the 'true' value of that population.  In this scenario, we analyzed variance in MAF across all five biological replicates at several time points.  This approach folds the technical variation of the pooled DNA sequencing approach in with the biological variance between replicate cultures.  Any variance between the culture replicates at a given sampling (time) point, then, encompasses natural biological differences as well as variance arising from unintentional technical error. These scripts and figures explore the nature of this variation in our dataset to more fully describe the significance of the dynamic trajectories of allele frequency we observed.
